Add tools/foundry subchapter (#1151)
oasisprotocol/docs: docs/build/tools/foundry.mdx

---
description: A guide for Foundry
---

# Foundry

> ## Intro

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

While you're at it, can you also remove it from the Remix chapter for consistency?

Author: Removed from remix.md

[Foundry] is a smart contract development environment 

> for EVM based chains. This guide will show you how to use Foundry to build, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for EVM-based chains. This guide will show you how to use Foundry to build, 
```

Author: Updated markdown file.

> test, and deploy smart contracts on the Sapphire Network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
test, and deploy smart contracts on Oasis Sapphire.
```

Author: Updated markdown file.

:::info

For comprehensive details about Foundry's features, consult the
[Foundry documentation].

:::

## Foundry Toolset

Foundry contains a collection of tools that help you build, test, and deploy 

> smart contracts on EVM based chains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Foundry contains the following tools:
```

Author: Updated markdown file.

**Forge** is a CLI [tool](https://book.getfoundry.sh/forge/) for building, testing, and deploying smart contracts. 
Due to integrated revm it significantly increases runtime speed when testing. 

**Anvil** is a local development EVM [node](https://book.getfoundry.sh/anvil/). 
It is installed as part of Foundry, but currently does not work with Sapphire.

**Cast** is a CLI [tool](https://book.getfoundry.sh/cast/) for interacting with EVM nodes. As it uses RPC calls it can be used
to interact with Sapphire localnet/testnet nodes.

> **Chisel** is Solidity [REPL](https://book.getfoundry.sh/chisel/). Not tested with Sapphire contracts, so use at your own risk.

Reviewer: Perhaps we could put those in bullets.

```suggestion
- **Forge** is a CLI [tool](https://book.getfoundry.sh/forge/) for building, testing, and deploying smart contracts. 
Due to integrated revm it significantly increases runtime speed when testing. 

- **Anvil** is a local development EVM [node](https://book.getfoundry.sh/anvil/). 
It is installed as part of Foundry, but currently does not work with Sapphire.

- **Cast** is a CLI [tool](https://book.getfoundry.sh/cast/) for interacting with EVM nodes. As it uses RPC calls it can be used
to interact with Sapphire localnet/testnet nodes.

- **Chisel** is Solidity [REPL](https://book.getfoundry.sh/chisel/). Not tested with Sapphire contracts, so use at your own risk.
```

Also, separate the links and move them below so that they don't clutter markdown.

Author: Updated with bullet points and separated links.

## Setup and Configuration

Foundry uses default revm EVM implementation which does not contain 

> all the [features](https://docs.oasis.io/build/sapphire/ethereum) of Sapphire.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
all [Sapphire-specific features](https://docs.oasis.io/build/sapphire/ethereum).
```

Reviewer 2: + separate links from text ;)

Author: Updated markdown file.

For that reason, we have to install special Sapphire precompiles which are 
available in the Sapphire foundry integration package. 
Steps 3-7 are required only for running tests with Forge.

1. Install and run Foundryup:
   ```bash
   curl -L https://foundry.paradigm.xyz | bash
   foundryup
   source ~/.bashrc
   ```
2. Create a new Forge project and move inside:

>    ```bash

Reviewer: No need for bash. Shell suffices. Same below.

````suggestion
   ```shell
````

Author: Updated markdown file.

   forge init sapphire_demo
   cd sapphire_demo
   ```
3. Install Sapphire contracts:
   ```bash
   forge soldeer install @oasisprotocol-sapphire-contracts~0.2.11 --config-location foundry
   ```
4. Install Sapphire foundry package:
   ```bash

>    forge soldeer install @oasisprotocol-integrations-foundry~0.1.1 --config-location foundry

Reviewer: Integrations is only internal naming. The package should be named `@oasisprotocol-sapphire-foundry`.

```suggestion
   forge soldeer install @oasisprotocol-sapphire-foundry~0.1.1 --config-location foundry
```

Author: Changed package name to @oasisprotocol-sapphire-foundry

   ```
5. Install rust nightly:
   ```bash
   curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
   rustup toolchain install nightly
   rustup default nightly
   ```
6. Install Sapphire precompiles:
   ```bash

>    cd dependencies/@oasisprotocol-integrations-foundry/precompiles

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   cd dependencies/@oasisprotocol-integrations-foundry-0.1.1/precompiles
```

Author: Updated markdown file.

   cargo +nightly build --release

>    ```

Reviewer 2: I think it's better to put this after all foundry.toml changes (dependencies + ffi).

It would be great to have a bit more detail on each step, such as why we need to install Rust nightly or why FFI needs to be enabled.

Author: Added subsection with description for ffi and dependencies. Will add details for rust nightly.

7. Enable ffi (foreign function interface) in foundry.toml:
   ```bash
   ffi = true

>    ```

Reviewer 2: I would add the full final foundry.toml file here, highlighting all the differences to the standard foundry.toml (similar to the hardhat.config in the Quickstart)

I think it makes sense for devs looking at it the first time to tell them step by step what they change, but  for devs who don't use it for the first time, they could just copy paste the foundry.toml and run `foundry soldeer install` instead of multiple copy/pasting.

Author: Agreed, this is better, I added the foundry.toml contents higher on the list.

## Sapphire specific features

> For users that aren't familiar with confidential benefits of Sapphire, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users that aren't familiar with confidential benefits of Sapphire should
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Users who aren't familiar with confidential benefits of Sapphire, 
```

Author: Updated markdown file.

> take a second to review the Ethereum [comparison page](https://docs.oasis.io/build/sapphire/ethereum).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
take a moment to review the Ethereum [comparison page](https://docs.oasis.io/build/sapphire/ethereum).
```

Author: Updated markdown file.

> `@oasisprotocol-integrations-foundry` package enables 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@oasisprotocol-integrations-foundry` package enables 
```

Author: Updated markdown file.

> testing precompile and encrypted calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
testing with precompiles and encrypted calls.
```

Author: Updated markdown file.

#### Precompiles

Sapphire precompiles are special precompiled contracts that 
contain cryptographic primitives and enable confidential transactions.
Since Foundry uses un-customized revm, they are not available by default.

To enable them in Forge tests, add the **import** statement to your test file:

```solidity

> import "@oasisprotocol-sapphire-contracts-0.2.11/BaseSapphireTest.sol";;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import "@oasisprotocol-sapphire-contracts-0.2.11/BaseSapphireTest.sol";
```

Author: Updated markdown file.

> import "@oasisprotocol-sapphire-contracts-0.2.11/BaseSapphireTest.sol";;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
import {SapphireTest} from "@oasisprotocol-sapphire-contracts-0.2.11/BaseSapphireTest.sol";
```
Named importing for best practices

Author: Updated with named import.

```
and then inherit from `SapphireTest` from `BaseSapphireTest.sol` 

> and override `setUp()` function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and override the `setUp()` function:
```

Author: Updated markdown file.

```solidity
   contract PrecompileTest is SapphireTest {
      
      function setUp() public override {
         super.setUp();
      }
```

#### Encrypted Transactions and Calls

Sapphire uses end-to-end encryption for confidential transactions and calls.

> This means that the calldata is encrypted using the shared [key](https://docs.oasis.io/build/sapphire/develop/concept).

Reviewer 2: Please separate links from text

For non-encrypted transactions, the process works same as on Ethereum.

> However, when testing [gasless transactions](https://docs.oasis.io/build/sapphire/develop/gasless) with Foundry,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, when testing for example [gasless transactions](https://docs.oasis.io/build/sapphire/develop/gasless) with Foundry,
```
I would add it as example, else it sounds this is the only use case.
+Please separate links from text :)

Author: Sorry about this, links are now separated.

we need to add a few things.

After deploying the precompiles in the previous step, we need to 
update our custom contract, encrypt the transaction and broadcast it.

1. `SapphireDecryptor` is a special contract that implements decryption through the fallback function.
We need to inherit from it to enable decryption.
```solidity
   import {SapphireDecryptor} from "@oasisprotocol-sapphire-contracts-0.2.11/BinaryContracts.sol";

   contract CustomContract is SapphireDecryptor {
```

> 2. See examples/foundry for this step to generate signed gasless tx.

Reviewer: Add link to github.

```suggestion
2. See [`examples/foundry`] for this step to see how to test encrypted gasless transaction.
```

Author: Added link to https://github.com/oasisprotocol/sapphire-paratime/tree/main/examples/foundry

3. `vm.broadcastRawTransaction(raw_tx)` to send the raw transaction.

### Forge Tests

> To run tests add a new file in the tests/ directory. Run tests with:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To run tests add a new file in the `tests/` directory. Run tests with:
```

Author: Updated markdown file.

```bash
forge test
```

> Some example can be found in the examples/foundry directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

:::info Example: Foundry

Visit the Sapphire ParaTime repository to download the [Foundry][foundry-example]
example.

:::

[foundry-example]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/sapphire-paratime/tree/main/examples/foundry

```

Author: Updated markdown file.

### Forge Script

> To run a script add a new file in the scripts/ directory. Run scripts with:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To run a script add a new file in the `scripts/` directory. Run scripts with:
```

Author: Updated markdown file.

```bash
forge script
```
Forge scripts should run the same way as tests.

# A note on Forks/External RPC nodes

> When running scripts, we might also want to run on localnet/testnet/mainnet using --rpc-url or --fork-url.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running scripts, we might also want to run on Localnet/Testnet/Mainnet using `--rpc-url` or `--fork-url`.
```

Add ticks also below.

Author: Updated markdown file.

This is not possible with this setup, because Sapphire precompiles are not available in the default revm.

> When using forge script on a external RPC node or a fork, precompiles are available through vm.rpcUrl() cheatcode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When using `forge script` on an external RPC node or a fork, precompiles are available through the `vm.rpcUrl()` cheatcode.
```

> To disable simulation on integrated revm make sure to disable simulation with --no-simulation flag and 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To disable simulation on integrated revm make sure to disable simulation with `--no-simulation` flag and 
```

Author: Updated markdown file.

---
description: A guide for Foundry
---

# Foundry

[Foundry] is a smart contract development environment
for EVM-based chains. This guide will show you how to use Foundry to build,
test, and deploy smart contracts on Oasis Sapphire.

:::info

For comprehensive details about Foundry's features, consult the
[Foundry documentation].

:::

Foundry contains the following tools:

- **Forge** is a CLI [tool] for building, testing, and deploying smart contracts.
Due to integrated revm it significantly increases runtime speed when testing.

- **Anvil** is a local development EVM [node].
It is installed as part of Foundry, but currently does not work with Sapphire.

- **Cast** is a [CLI tool] for interacting with EVM nodes. As it uses RPC calls it can be used

> to interact with Sapphire localnet/testnet nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Cast** is a [CLI tool] for interacting with EVM nodes. It uses RPC calls, so it can be used
to interact with Sapphire nodes running the [Oasis Web3 gateway].
```

and below

```
[Oasis Web3 gateway]: ../../node/web3.mdx
```

Author: Updated wording.

> - **Chisel** is Solidity [REPL]. Not tested with Sapphire contracts, so use at your own risk.

Reviewer: What is REPL? ;)

Author: Improved chisel description, with definition from Foundry docs.

## Setup and Configuration

Foundry uses default revm EVM implementation which does not contain
all [Sapphire-specific features].
For that reason, we have to install special Sapphire precompiles which are
available in the Sapphire foundry integration package.

> Steps 3-7 are required only for running tests with Forge.

Reviewer: This is not entirely true. You need `@oasisprotocol-sapphire-contracts` if your smart contract needs Sapphire features (rng, signatures, on-chain encryption, siwe etc.).

I would split the steps below first to install `@oasisprotocol-sapphire-contracts` via CLI. Then, add (optional) bullets afterwards (separate subsection?) to install `@oasisprotocol-sapphire-foundry` which is then used for testing. Also, BaseSapphireTest should be part of the sapphire-foundry I think, because you cannot use it in hardhat/typescript for example.

Author: Split into separate optional subsection with suggested changes.

1. Install and run Foundryup:
   ```shell
   curl -L https://foundry.paradigm.xyz | bash
   foundryup
   source ~/.bashrc
   ```
2. Create a new Forge project and move inside:
   ```shell
   forge init sapphire_demo
   cd sapphire_demo
   ```
3. After initializing the project, you should have a `foundry.toml`
file in the root of your project. Copy the following content to it:

> ```toml

Reviewer: Indent so it's rendered under the bullet 3.

Author: Fixed indent.

[profile.default]
src = "src"
out = "out"
libs = ["lib", "dependencies"]
ffi = true

[dependencies]
"@oasisprotocol-sapphire-contracts" = "0.2.11"
"@oasisprotocol-sapphire-foundry" = "0.1.0"

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

  ```toml title="foundry.toml"
  [profile.default]
  src = "src"
  out = "out"
  libs = ["lib", "dependencies"]
  // highlight-start
  ffi = true
  
  [dependencies]
  "@oasisprotocol-sapphire-contracts" = "0.2.11"
  "@oasisprotocol-sapphire-foundry" = "0.1.0"
  // highlight-end
  ```
```

Author: Added highlighting.

- `ffi = true` enables `vm.ffi()` ([foreign function interface]) which is used to call rust bindings
which contain the precompile and decryption logic.

- `"dependencies"` is a list of dependencies that are required for the project.

> We use Foundry package manager [soldeer] to install these dependencies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - `ffi = true` enables `vm.ffi()` ([foreign function interface]) which is used to call rust bindings
  which contain the precompile and decryption logic.
  
  - `"dependencies"` is a list of dependencies that are required for the project.
  We use Foundry package manager [soldeer] to install these dependencies.
```

Author: Added indentation.

4. Install dependencies with soldeer:

   ```shell
   forge soldeer install
   ```

5. Install rust toolchain (nightly):

   ```shell
   curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
   rustup toolchain install nightly
   rustup default nightly
   ```

- `@oasisprotocol-sapphire-foundry` relies on Oasis Sapphire `runtime-sdk`

> crate which requires nightly toolchain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - `@oasisprotocol-sapphire-foundry` relies on Oasis Sapphire `runtime-sdk`
  crate which requires nightly toolchain.
```

```shell
forge test
```
:::info Example: Foundry  

Visit the Sapphire ParaTime repository to download the [Foundry][foundry-example]  
example.  

:::  

[foundry-example]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/sapphire-paratime/tree/main/examples/foundry

### Forge Script

To run a script add a new file in the `scripts/` directory. Run scripts with:

```shell
forge script
```

Forge scripts should run the same way as tests.

## A note on Forks/External RPC nodes

When running scripts, we might also want to run on Localnet/Testnet/Mainnet
using `--rpc-url` or `--fork-url`.
This is not possible with this setup, because Sapphire precompiles are not
available in the default revm.
When using `forge script` on an external RPC node or a fork,
precompiles are available through the `vm.rpcUrl()` cheatcode.
To disable simulation on integrated revm make sure to disable
simulation with `--no-simulation` flag and
remove the imports and inheritances from previous steps.

## Verification with Foundry

After contracts are deployed, you can verify them with Sourcify.
Check out the [verification with foundry] section for more details.

> Quickstart Tutorial: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/docs/blob/main/docs/build/sapphire/quickstart.mdx

Reviewer: I don't think this should be here?

Author: Removed Quickstart Tutorial

---
description: A guide for Foundry
---

# Foundry

[Foundry] is a smart contract development environment
for EVM-based chains. This guide will show you how to use Foundry to build,
test, and deploy smart contracts on Oasis Sapphire.

:::info

For comprehensive details about Foundry's features, consult the
[Foundry documentation].

:::

Foundry contains the following tools:

- **Forge** is a CLI [tool] for building, testing,
and deploying smart contracts.
Due to integrated revm it significantly increases runtime speed when testing.

- **Anvil** is a local development EVM [node].
It is installed as part of Foundry, but currently cannot
be extended with Sapphire features.

- **Cast** is a [CLI tool] for interacting with EVM nodes.
It uses RPC calls, so it can be used
to interact with Sapphire nodes running the [Oasis Web3 gateway].

- **Chisel** is a Solidity [REPL] (short for "read-eval-print loop")
that allows developers to write and test Solidity code snippets.
It provides an interactive environment for writing and executing
Solidity code, as well as a set of built-in commands for working
with and debugging your code.

## Setup and Configuration

> Foundry uses default revm EVM implementation which does not contain

Reviewer: Let's move this paragraph under the `Installing Sapphire Foundry (Optional)` section.

Also:

```suggestion
Foundry uses [revm] EVM implementation which does not contain
```

and below:
```
[revm]: https://github.com/bluealloy/revm
```

Author: Updated docs.

[Sapphire-specific features].
For that reason, we have to install special Sapphire precompiles which are
available in the **Sapphire foundry** package.

**Sapphire Contracts** package is also provided. It contains
helper solidity contracts and libraries that enable convenient access to

> on-chain data and precompiles (rng, signatures, on-chain encryption, etc.).

Reviewer: Let's move this under step 3. below.

Author: Moved to step 3

   ```

2. Create a new Forge project and move inside:

   ```shell
   forge init sapphire_demo
   cd sapphire_demo
   ```

3. **Sapphire Contracts** package contains
helper solidity contracts and libraries that enable convenient access to
on-chain data and precompiles (rng, signatures, on-chain encryption, etc.).
After intializing the project, we can install the **Sapphire Contracts**

> package using Foundry package manager [soldeer]:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
package using Foundry package manager [Soldeer]:
```
nitpick - lets keep product names capitalized

Author: Updated

   ```shell
   forge soldeer install @oasisprotocol-sapphire-contracts~0.2.11
   ```

### Installing Sapphire Foundry (Optional)

> Foundry uses [revm] EVM implementation which does not contain

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Foundry uses for Forge test the [Revm], an EVM implementation which does not contain
```
nitpick - lets keep product names capitalized

Author: Updated.

>    forge soldeer install @oasisprotocol-sapphire-contracts~0.2.11

Reviewer: The version could be omitted right?

```suggestion
   forge soldeer install @oasisprotocol-sapphire-contracts
```

Author: I couldn't find a way to make it work without specifying version. The suggested change returns an error, and in soldeer/foundry docs, version is always mentioned.

Reviewer 2: Yes, Soldeer needs a version, there is nothing similar like @latest 
To omit the version in the cmd line, the foundry.toml would to be updated first with the dependencies, then you could use `forge soldeer install`.

Author: Since these are step-by-step instructions I think it's better to leave it as is. `forge soldeer install` shortcut and foundry.toml are already mentioned in the later section.

For that reason, we have to install special Sapphire precompiles which are
available in the **Sapphire foundry** package.

If you intend to use Sapphire features in Forge tests,

> follow these additional steps:

Reviewer 2: "For that reason" is, I think, not clear enough. The in-memory EVM is only used for tests and local simulation when using scripts, if I have read it correctly (correct me if I'm wrong)?

This use should be mentioned in the first paragraph, so that readers don't have to read further if they are not interested in using these functions.

> 1. Install the **Sapphire Foundry** soldeer package:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Install the **Sapphire Foundry** Soldeer package:
```
nitpick - lets keep product names capitalized

Author: Updated.

1. Install the **Sapphire Foundry** soldeer package:

   ```shell

>    forge soldeer install @oasisprotocol-sapphire-foundry~0.1.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   forge soldeer install @oasisprotocol-sapphire-foundry
```

   ```

> 2. Add `ffi = true` to your foundry.toml file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Add `ffi = true` to your `foundry.toml` file:
```

Author: Added change.

> 3. Your foundry.toml file should now look like this:
> 
>    ```toml

Reviewer: Let's merge 2. and 3.:

```suggestion
   ```toml title="foundry.toml"
```

Author: Merged points 2 and 3.

   libs = ["lib", "dependencies"]
   ffi = true

   [dependencies]
   "@oasisprotocol-sapphire-contracts" = "0.2.11"
   "@oasisprotocol-sapphire-foundry" = "0.1.0"
   ```

   Note:
   - `ffi = true` enables `vm.ffi()` ([foreign function interface])
   which is used to call rust bindings containing the precompile and
   decryption logic
   - `"dependencies"` lists the required project dependencies installed

>    via the Foundry package manager [soldeer]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   via the Foundry package manager [Soldeer]
```
nitpick - lets keep product names capitalized

Author: Updated.

   decryption logic
   - `"dependencies"` lists the required project dependencies installed
   via the Foundry package manager [soldeer]
   - (Alternative) You can also skip previous steps, copy the contents
   to your foundry.toml file and run:

   ```shell
   forge soldeer install
   ```

4. Install rust toolchain (nightly):

   ```shell
   curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
   rustup toolchain install nightly
   rustup default nightly
   ```

   Note: `@oasisprotocol-sapphire-foundry` relies on Oasis Sapphire
   `runtime-sdk` crate which requires nightly toolchain.

5. Install Sapphire precompiles:
   ```shell
   cd dependencies/@oasisprotocol-sapphire-foundry-0.1.0/precompiles
   cargo +nightly build --release
   ```

> ## Sapphire specific features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Sapphire-specific tests
```

Author: Updated

Users who aren't familiar with confidential benefits of Sapphire
should take a moment to review the Ethereum [comparison page].
The `@oasisprotocol-sapphire-foundry` package enables
testing with precompiles and encrypted calls.

> #### Precompiles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Precompiles
```

Author: Updated

> Since Foundry uses un-customized revm, they are not available by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since Foundry uses un-customized Revm, they are not available by default.
```
nitpick - lets keep product names capitalized

Author: Updated

Sapphire precompiles are special precompiled contracts that
contain cryptographic primitives and enable confidential transactions.
Since Foundry uses un-customized revm, they are not available by default.

To enable them in Forge tests, add the **import** statement to your test file:

```solidity
import {SapphireTest} from "@oasisprotocol-sapphire-foundry-0.1.0/BaseSapphireTest.sol";

> ```
> and then inherit from `SapphireTest` from `BaseSapphireTest.sol`
> and override the `setUp()` function:
> ```solidity

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```

and then inherit from `SapphireTest` from `BaseSapphireTest.sol`
and override the `setUp()` function:

```solidity
````

Author: Updated docs

   contract PrecompileTest is SapphireTest {
      
      function setUp() public override {
         super.setUp();
      }
```

> #### Encrypted Transactions and Calls

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Encrypted Transactions and Calls
```

Author: Updated

Sapphire uses end-to-end encryption for confidential transactions and calls.
This means that the calldata is encrypted using the shared [key].
For non-encrypted transactions, the process works same as on Ethereum.
However, when testing for example [gasless transactions] with Foundry,
we need to add a few things.

After deploying the precompiles in the previous step, we need to
update our custom contract, encrypt the transaction and broadcast it.

1. `SapphireDecryptor` is a special contract that implements decryption
through the fallback function.
We need to inherit from it to enable decryption.

```solidity
   import {SapphireDecryptor} from "@oasisprotocol-sapphire-foundry-0.1.0/BinaryContracts.sol";

   contract CustomContract is SapphireDecryptor {
```

2. See [examples/foundry] for this step to see
how to test encrypted gasless transaction.

3. `vm.broadcastRawTransaction(raw_tx)` to send the raw transaction.

> ### Forge Tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `forge test`
```

Author: Updated

To run tests add a new file in the `tests/` directory. Run tests with:
```shell
forge test
```
:::info Example: Foundry  

Visit the Sapphire ParaTime repository to download the [Foundry][foundry-example]
example.  

:::  

[foundry-example]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/sapphire-paratime/tree/main/examples/foundry

> ### Forge Script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `forge script`
```

Author: Updated

To run a script add a new file in the `scripts/` directory. Run scripts with:

```shell
forge script
```

Forge scripts should run the same way as tests.

> ## A note on Forks/External RPC nodes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## A Note on Forks/External RPC Nodes
```

Author: Updated

When running scripts, we might also want to run on Localnet/Testnet/Mainnet
using `--rpc-url` or `--fork-url`.
This is not possible with this setup, because Sapphire precompiles are not

> available in the default revm.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
available in the default Revm.
```
nitpick - lets keep product names capitalized

Author: Updated

When using `forge script` on an external RPC node or a fork,

> precompiles are available through the `vm.rpcUrl()` cheatcode.

Reviewer 2: hm, dosen't `vm.rpcURL()` gives you just back the URL of defined rpc endpoints?
Should this refer to that if a rpc url for localnet/testnet/mainnet is provided, contracts can use precompiles?

Author: Sorry, I meant to mention vm.rpc() cheatcode. I added more detailed description for this section

> To disable simulation on integrated revm make sure to disable

Reviewer 2: I'm a bit confused, does simulation make sense with Sapphire?
At what point you wouldn't use --no-simulation?
If you use forge script without an external RPC, how do you use the precompiles?

Author: No, you're right, for running scripts against an external RPC we should always use --skip-simulation, otherwise it will not work. But the trouble is, even with --skip-simulation and --broadcast flags, view calls don't pass through the RPC but are still executed in the local Revm. That is why we need to use vm.rpc(), to access the precompiles directly. 
I updated the docs with a more detailed example.

simulation with `--no-simulation` flag and
remove the imports and inheritances from previous steps.

## Verification with Foundry

After contracts are deployed, you can verify them with Sourcify.

> Check out the [verification with foundry] section for more details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Check out the [Verification with Foundry] section for more details.
```
nitpick - keep capitalization like in the header

Author: Updated

Should you have any questions, do not hesitate to share them with us on the
[#dev-central Discord channel][discord].

[Foundry]: https://github.com/foundry-rs/foundry
[Foundry documentation]: https://book.getfoundry.sh/
[discord]: https://oasis.io/discord
[tool]: https://book.getfoundry.sh/forge/
[node]: https://book.getfoundry.sh/anvil/
[CLI tool]: https://book.getfoundry.sh/cast/
[REPL]: https://book.getfoundry.sh/chisel/
[Sapphire-specific features]: ../sapphire/ethereum
[comparison page]: ../sapphire/ethereum
[gasless transactions]: ../sapphire/develop/gasless
[key]: ../sapphire/develop/concept
[examples/foundry]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/sapphire-paratime/tree/main/examples/foundry

> [verification with foundry]: ./verification/#verification-with-foundry

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Verification with Foundry]: ./verification/#verification-with-foundry
```

Author: Updated

[foreign function interface]: https://book.getfoundry.sh/cheatcodes/ffi

> [soldeer]: https://book.getfoundry.sh/projects/soldeer?highlight=soldeer#soldeer-as-a-package-manager

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Soldeer]: https://book.getfoundry.sh/projects/soldeer?highlight=soldeer#soldeer-as-a-package-manager
```

Author: Updated

[Oasis Web3 gateway]: ../../node/web3.mdx

> [revm]: https://github.com/bluealloy/revm

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Revm]: https://github.com/bluealloy/revm
```

Author: Updated

1. Install and run Foundryup:

   ```shell
   curl -L https://foundry.paradigm.xyz | bash
   foundryup
   source ~/.bashrc
   ```

2. Create a new Forge project and move inside:

   ```shell
   forge init sapphire_demo
   cd sapphire_demo
   ```

3. **Sapphire Contracts** package contains
helper solidity contracts and libraries that enable convenient access to
on-chain data and precompiles (rng, signatures, on-chain encryption, etc.).
After intializing the project, we can install the **Sapphire Contracts**
package using Foundry package manager [Soldeer]:

   ```shell
   forge soldeer install @oasisprotocol-sapphire-contracts~0.2.13
   ```

### Installing Sapphire Foundry (Optional)

If you intend to use Sapphire features in Forge tests/scripts
follow this section.

Forge tests use [Revm], an EVM implementation which does not contain
[Sapphire-specific features].
For that reason, we have to install special Sapphire precompiles which are
available in the **Sapphire foundry** package.

1. Install the **Sapphire Foundry** Soldeer package:

   ```shell
   forge soldeer install @oasisprotocol-sapphire-foundry~0.1.0
   ```

2. Your foundry.toml file should now look like this:

>    ```toml title="foundry.toml"
>       [profile.default]
>       src = "src"
>       out = "out"
>       libs = ["lib", "dependencies"]
>       // highlight-start
>       ffi = true
>       
>       [dependencies]
>       "@oasisprotocol-sapphire-contracts" = "0.2.13"
>       "@oasisprotocol-sapphire-foundry" = "0.1.0"
>       // highlight-end
>    ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```toml title="foundry.toml"
   [profile.default]
   src = "src"
   out = "out"
   libs = ["lib", "dependencies"]
   // highlight-start
   ffi = true
   
   [dependencies]
   "@oasisprotocol-sapphire-contracts" = "0.2.13"
   "@oasisprotocol-sapphire-foundry" = "0.1.0"
   // highlight-end
   ```
```

Author: Updated

   Note:
      - `ffi = true` enables `vm.ffi()` ([foreign function interface])
      which is used to call rust bindings containing the precompile and
      decryption logic
      - `"dependencies"` lists the required project dependencies installed
      via the Foundry package manager [Soldeer]
      - (Alternative) You can also skip previous steps, copy the contents
      to your foundry.toml file and run:

>    ```shell
>    forge soldeer install
>    ```

Reviewer: This should be indented.

````suggestion
         ```shell
         forge soldeer install
         ```
````

Author: Updated.

>    ```shell
>    forge soldeer install
>    ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ```shell
      forge soldeer install
      ```
```

Author: Updated

   ```

   Note: `@oasisprotocol-sapphire-foundry` relies on Oasis Sapphire
   `runtime-sdk` crate which requires nightly toolchain.

4. Install Sapphire precompiles:
   ```shell
   cd dependencies/@oasisprotocol-sapphire-foundry-0.1.0/precompiles
   cargo +nightly build --release
   ```

## Sapphire-specific Tests

Users who aren't familiar with confidential benefits of Sapphire
should take a moment to review the Ethereum [comparison page].
The `@oasisprotocol-sapphire-foundry` package enables
testing with precompiles and encrypted calls.

### Precompiles

Sapphire precompiles are special precompiled contracts that
contain cryptographic primitives and enable confidential transactions.
Since Foundry uses un-customized Revm, they are not available by default.

To enable them in Forge tests, add the **import** statement to your test file:

```solidity
import {SapphireTest} from "@oasisprotocol-sapphire-foundry-0.1.0/BaseSapphireTest.sol";
```

and then inherit from `SapphireTest` from `BaseSapphireTest.sol`
and override the `setUp()` function:

```solidity
   contract PrecompileTest is SapphireTest {
      
      function setUp() public override {
         super.setUp();
      }

> ```

Reviewer: Remove indents.

Author: Updated

### Encrypted Transactions and Calls

Sapphire uses end-to-end encryption for confidential transactions and calls.
This means that the calldata is encrypted using the shared [key].
For non-encrypted transactions, the process works same as on Ethereum.
However, when testing for example [gasless transactions] with Foundry,
we need to add a few things.

After deploying the precompiles in the previous step, we need to
update our custom contract, encrypt the transaction and broadcast it.

1. `SapphireDecryptor` is a special contract that implements decryption
through the fallback function.
We need to inherit from it to enable decryption.

> ```solidity
>    import {SapphireDecryptor} from "@oasisprotocol-sapphire-foundry-0.1.0/BinaryContracts.sol";
> 
>    contract CustomContract is SapphireDecryptor {
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
   ```solidity
   import {SapphireDecryptor} from "@oasisprotocol-sapphire-foundry-0.1.0/BinaryContracts.sol";

   contract CustomContract is SapphireDecryptor {
   ```
````

Author: Updated.
